=========================  Criminal Case 1740  =========================

    BobTHJ violated rule 1504 by failing to notify the defendant in CFJ
    1735 as soon as possible while assigned as judge of that case during
    the pre-trial period.

========================================================================

Caller:                                 Zefram
Barred:                                 BobTHJ

Judge:                                  Taral
Judgement:                              GUILTY/CHOKEY

Appeal:                                 1740a
Decision:                               OVERRULE/APOLOGY

========================================================================

History:

Called by Zefram:                       06 Sep 2007 10:02:04 GMT
Assigned to Taral:                      06 Sep 2007 10:06:39 GMT
Defendant BobTHJ informed:              12 Sep 2007 00:11:08 GMT
Pre-trial phase ended:                  19 Sep 2007 00:11:08 GMT
Judged GUILTY/CHOKEY by Taral:          21 Sep 2007 05:31:33 GMT
Appealed by BobTHJ:                     21 Sep 2007 15:57:46 GMT
Appeal 1740a:                           21 Sep 2007 15:57:46 GMT
OVERRULED to APOLOGY on Appeal:         21 Sep 2007 20:48:22 GMT

========================================================================

Judge Taral's Arguments:

The rules are quite clear on this - it is a requirement and failure to
do so is a violation of the rule in question (Rule 1504). Therefore I
judge GUILTY. I sentence BobTHJ to CHOKEY for 30 days.

(People in the chokey really shouldn't be able to judge cases.)

========================================================================

Appellant BobTHJ's Arguments:

I appeal the sentence of this CFJ.

========================================================================

Gratuitous Arguments by BobTHJ:

I understand this apology is not apt to earn my an ovation by any
means, yet here is my feeble attempt to right those wrongs which I
have committed. There is of course no excuse for the tardiness I have
displayed in issuing this apology. Like a stoat, I attempted to slip
away from this sentence with obstinate recusancy. For this I am duly
repentant. To be honest, I knew that to truly comply with this
sentence would be a hummer, and the prospect frightened me. In panic,
my response was inaudibleness (or the e-mail equivalent).

Tardiness aside, of what value would this apology be if I did not
address the issues which prompted the sentence in the first place? It
would be like unto a paillard that has been cooked until it is dry,
and thus leaves an unpleasant burnt taste upon the pallete, and a
weakness in the jaw from prolonged chewing. Therefore, I do humbly
apologize, both to the players and watchers of Agora for failing to
notify the defendant of CFJ 1735. I thank the courts for their
leniency in my sentencing, and I vow to better serve Agora in the
future.

But (and I have selected this conjunctive carefully) before I
conclude, I must address the issues which, while not relieving me of
my guilt, does in fact play a major role in my downfall. During
Agora's long growth up the espalier of Nomic history, a fair amount of
limature has been sheared away: former players who, while initially
attracted to Agora, soon depart to other things. This phenomenon is
due in part to the tediousness and nitpickery of established players,
as well as the engorgement of the ruleset with bland and uninteresting
rules which serve no better purpose than to provide a subject for
endless squabbles among the previously mentioned players. It was in
such a position that I found myself, with a growing apathy and
disinterest in the game (if it could be called such). Agora has become
a skeletal cadaver. While the rigid (yet brittle) structure is still
in place, all flesh has long ago been eaten away. Therefore to you, my
fellow Agorans, I pledge my return to Agora to be one of resurrection!
I hope to bring new life to Agora by returning the 'game' to the game.
I ask that you join me in cobbling together a vibrant and intensely
complex monstrosity with a high entertainment value.

Respectfully and humbly yours,
BobTHJ

========================================================================