==============================  CFJ 1954  ==============================

    In the message archived at the URL <http://www.agoranomic.org/cgi-bi
    n/mailman/private/agora-business/2008-May/010573.html>, ehird won
    the game.

========================================================================

Caller:                                 ehird

Judge:                                  Machiavelli
Judgement:                              


Judge:                                  Murphy
Judgement:                              FALSE

========================================================================

History:

Called by ehird:                        14 May 2008 15:35:45 GMT
Assigned to Machiavelli:                16 May 2008 05:36:58 GMT
Machiavelli recused:                    16 May 2008 11:02:42 GMT
Assigned to Murphy:                     18 May 2008 11:06:13 GMT
Judged FALSE by Murphy:                 18 May 2008 11:49:31 GMT

========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

There are only two rules that could prevent a player from winning the
game merely by announcing it: rule 2186/0 and rule 101/7. In addition,
it must be established that it is possible to win the game merely by
announcing it.

Rule 101/7(ii) allows players to take actions which are not regulated
(and precedent seems to be that in general regulated actions cannot be
taken except by virtue of rule 101/7). Therefore, if it is shown that
rule 2186/0 is not a problem, and that the action of winning the game
by announcement is not regulated, then an attempt to win the game by
announcement must succeed.

Rule 2140(c) implies that no entity with a power less than 3 can
modify any substantive aspect of an instrument with power greater than
its own, defining a "substantive" aspect of an instrument as any
aspect that affects the instrument's operation. Therefore, in order to
show that rule 2186/0 does not prevent a player winning the game by
announcement, it needs only be shown that given that winning the game
by announcement is not regulated, that part of rule 2186/0 affects a
substantive aspect of a rule with higher power.

Rule 2186/0 states "This is the only way to win the game, rules to the
contrary notwithstanding." However, rule 2186/0, being less powerful
than rule 101, cannot take precedence over it, nor modify a
substantive aspect of it; the ability to take non-regulated actions by
announcement is clearly a substantive aspect of rule 101 (because part
(ii) talks specifically about non-regulated actions, and therefore the
ability or otherwise to take non-regulated actions is clearly an
aspect that affects the operation of rule 101; to expand on this, rule
101 allows a certain set of actions to be performed, and rule 2186/0
attempts to modify this set, but fails because it has a lower
precedence), so given that winning the game by announcement is not
regulated, rule 2186/0 cannot override it.

Therefore, all that remains to show is that winning the game by
announcement is not regulated. The only rule that could cause it to be
regulated is rule 2125/1. First, part (d) of that rule is irrelevant
to this CFJ, as me winning the game in no way makes it impossible to
modify the rules. Second, part (c) does not apply either; although
this is less obvious, no player is the recordkeepor of which players
have won the game (the Herald awards the patent title of Champion, but
this is an indirect consequence of a player winning the game, not as a
necessary result of it; regulation under 2125/1(c) would prevent the
Herald awarding the title of Champion unless permitted to do so by
other rules, rather than preventing a player winning the game by
announcement.) So all that remains is to show that neither part (a)
nor (b) of 2125/1 causes the action of winning the game by
announcement to be regulated.

First, note that the only rule that could 'prohibit' the action of
winning the game by announcement is 2186/0; and the set of which
actions are prohibited is clearly a substantive aspect of rule 2125/1
(because that set directly affects which actions are prohibited by
rule 2125/1, thus affecting its operation), so it is obvious that the
action of winning the game by announcement is not prohibited, and so
rule 2125/1(a) does not regulate it. Finally, the ruleset nowhere
states that if certain conditions are met, a player wins the game by
announcement. (Rule 2186/0 refers to a win announcement, but this is
not the same thing; a win announcement has to be explicitly labeled as
such, and is not involved in all methods of winning the game (e.g. the
Winning Condition of Renaissance can be achieved without involving a
win announcement).) Therefore, rule 2125/1(b) does not cause the
action of winning the game by announcement to be regulated either.

Therefore, as the power-3 rule 101/7(ii) permits winning the game by
announcement, and no rule with power at least 3 prohibits it, it is
possible to win the game by announcement. As I made such an
announcement, I have therefore won the game.

========================================================================

Judge Murphy's Arguments:

Winning the game, by announcement or otherwise, is regulated by Rule
2186.  Since it is regulated, Rule 101 (ii) does not apply; there is
no conflict to interfere with Rule 2186.  FALSE.

========================================================================