==============================  CFJ 2061  ==============================

    The Reformed Bank of Agora is a partnership.

========================================================================

Caller:                                 root

Judge:                                  Machiavelli
Judgement:                              


Judge:                                  woggle
Judgement:                              


Judge:                                  ais523
Judgement:                              TRUE

========================================================================

History:

Called by root:                         03 Jul 2008 20:27:00 GMT
Assigned to Machiavelli:                04 Jul 2008 06:45:49 GMT
Assigned to woggle:                     19 Jul 2008 00:48:11 GMT
Machiavelli recused:                    19 Jul 2008 00:48:11 GMT
woggle recused:                         19 Jul 2008 06:32:00 GMT
Assigned to ais523:                     20 Jul 2008 07:12:27 GMT
Judged TRUE by ais523:                  21 Jul 2008 16:08:10 GMT

========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

By Rule 2145, a partnership must devolve its obligations onto its
members.  This necessitates that the members be empowered to cause the
partnership to meet its obligations.

In the case of criminal apologies, Rule 1504 requires that the apology
be submitted within 72 hours.  However, the only way for the members
of the RBoA to cause it to submit an apology is to act on its behalf
without three objections.  By Rule 1728, the minimum time-frame for
performing an action without N objections is four days.  Thus, it is
impossible (without advance warning) for the RBoA to meet an
obligation to submit an apology.

It follows that the members of the RBoA are not empowered to cause it
to submit an apology within the time requirements for doing so.  I
therefore claim that the RBoA does not satisfactorily devolve its
obligations upon its members, and so it is not a partnership.

========================================================================

Caller's Evidence:

Reformed Bank of Agora Contract

1. The name of this contract is the Reformed Bank of Agora. This is a
public contract and a partnership.

2. Parties to this contract are known as Bankers. Any person who owns
at least 10% of all Chits may become party to this agreement by
announcement. If a Banker has not continuously owned at least 10% of
all Chits for 7 days any Banker may cause them to cease to be party to
this agreement by announcement. The Bankers shall act collectively to
fulfill the obligations required of this contract.

3. Chits are a currency. The Treasurer is the recordkeeper of Chits.
Initially the Treasurer is BobTHJ.

4. Each non-fixed currency defined by the rules of Agora or by a
public contract may have an exchange rate. The list of current
exchange rates shall be part of the Treasurer's weekly report. Any
Banker may set the exchange rate of a currency to a specific integer
value without three objections. Initially, the exchange rate for each
currency shall be set to the deposit rate of the same currency in the
most recently published Bank of Agora report, rounded down to the
nearest integer.

5. A person CAN transfer one instance of a currency with an exchange
rate to the Reformed Bank of Agora by announcement. Upon doing so a
number of Chits equal to that exchange rate are created in the
possession of that person.

6. A person CAN, by announcement, destroy a number of Chits in eir
possession equal to the exchange rate of a currency times 1.1 (rounded
up) as long as the Bank possesses at least one of that currency. Upon
doing so one unit of that currency is transferred from the Reformed
Bank of Agora to that person.

7. Any Banker CAN amend this contract without three objections. Any
Banker CAN act on behalf of the Reformed Bank of Agora without three
objections.

========================================================================

Gratuitous Arguments by woggle:

The partners can enable themselves to fulfill this obligation within
the time limit amending the RBoA with agreement of all parties.

The partners may be able to substantially postpone the obligation
by appealing the sentence before the deadline for the apology is up.

========================================================================

Judge ais523's Arguments:

On CFJ 2061, I rule TRUE. woggle's gratuitous arguments are correct.

========================================================================