==============================  CFJ 2474  ==============================

    Quazie registered via eir recent public message stating "May I
    register?"

========================================================================

Caller:                                 Quazie

Judge:                                  ais523
Judgement:                              FALSE

========================================================================

History:

Called by Quazie:                       27 Apr 2009 17:22:30 GMT
Assigned to ais523:                     27 Apr 2009 23:44:35 GMT
Judged FALSE by ais523:                 29 Apr 2009 11:22:28 GMT

========================================================================

Caller's Evidence:

Messages were sent in the following order:

1 - "I registered"
2 - Private message to Yally
3 - Public capitol message
4 - Public 'May I' message

========================================================================

Gratuitous Arguments by Yally:

I recommend the following judgments:

4. TRUE, as requesting permission to register constitutes registering.

========================================================================

Judge ais523's Arguments:

CFJ 2474 is more interesting. Quazie certainly requested permission to
register in an announcement; is this the same as announcing that one
requests permission to register? Rule 869 seems ambiguous as to whether
the "or requests permission to register" is part of "by announcing
that"; however, the meaning in which requesting permission to register
is a separate mechanism, rather than possible announcement, is
grammatically incorrect. In the case of a statement which is ambiguous,
with one grammatically correct meaning and one grammatically incorrect
meaning, the correct one should be the one that is taken. This is backed
up by the fact that the other meaning could arguably allow
deregistration-timeoutted players to register by requesting permission
to do so, creating a contradiction between rule 869 and itself;
likewise, a self-contradictory meaning should not be taken to be the
correct one when an ambiguous rule has another meaning which makes
sense, fits in with game custom, and contains no contradictions.
Therefore, I judge CFJ 2474 also FALSE; requesting permission to
register is not the same as announcing that you do so. This is a
slightly strange situation with respect to ISIDTID; requesting
permission to register fails due to not being by announcement, whereas
announcing that one requests permission to register is a false
statement, but succeeds at registering (rather than at requesting
permission)! The weird case here where announcing that one performs an
action actually performs an entirely different action may quite possibly
cause problems with rule 2215; however, they did not come up in this
particular case, and even if they may affect the legality of a
hypothetical registration attempt, they do not affect its possibility,
nor the legality of /this/ attempt. (Announcing that one requests to
register may come up against a similar problem; announcing that one
wishes to register most likely doesn't, as it would be an unlikely
announcement unless the person in question did indeed wish to register,
and even if e didn't, that would be very difficult to prove. And
announcing that one registers doesn't, because in that case the
announcement about the action accurately describes the action. Note that
this means that "I register." could be illegaly misleading (depending on
circumstances) if the player attempting it is barred from registering
for some reason, whereas "I wish to register." couldn't.)

========================================================================