==============================  CFJ 2554  ==============================

    Rule 2029 consists of two sentences.

========================================================================

Caller:                                 Rodlen

Judge:                                  allispaul
Judgement:                              TRUE

========================================================================

History:

Called by Rodlen:                       01 Jun 2009 17:48:46 GMT
Assigned to allispaul:                  06 Jun 2009 06:53:24 GMT
Judged TRUE by allispaul:               07 Jun 2009 13:35:37 GMT

========================================================================

Judge allispaul's Arguments:

"Sentence" is defined in the rules as "the judgment in the question on
sentencing"; since I have full reason to believe that the caller did
not intend this meaning, I reject it and am thus entitled to use the
ordinary-language definition, by R754.  A Google search for
"define:sentence" gives, besides the aforementioned judicial meaning
and an episode of "The Outer Limits," "a string of words satisfying
the grammatical rules of language," further specified by the assertion
that it "must contain a subject and a predicate."

The text of R2029 is:
                      /\   /\
                      / \ / \
                         T
                        his
                      Power-4
               Rule (the first ever)
                was placed to honor
           The Agoran  Spirit Of The Game
           by Goethe, Steve, Murphy, root
           and OscarMeyr, Scamsters. Look
           on our works, ye Marvy, but do
      always Dance a Powerful Dance.  Hail Eris!

R105 states that variation in whitespace in a rule does not constitute
ambiguity for the purposes of rule-changes, and there is no reason why
this precedent should change in the simple reading of the rule.  So
the unusual spacing of the rule is here without effect.  Now, this
rule contains three grammatically correct strings of text, each
delimited by a stop character and whitespace.  The only question is
whether "Hail Eris!" is a sentence (as opposed to, say, a simple
interjection or a list of things capable of destroying houses).  CFJ
1736 states that "it seems more natural that the rule itself is
hailing Eris, in the course of honoring the Agoran Spirit Of the
Game."

Furthermore, it is not in game custom to hail Eris except in
appropriate extenuating circumstances.  If these words were an
imperative sentence, they would impose a requirement on their implied
subject "you."  It is clear from the aforementioned CFJ and game
custom that they do not.  Therefore, it is in our best interest if
this text is ruled interjective.  I rule TRUE.

========================================================================