==============================  CFJ 2729  ==============================

    The Assumption of the Registrar is Postulated.

========================================================================

Caller:                                 BobTHJ

Judge:                                  ais523
Judgement:                              TRUE

========================================================================

History:

Called by BobTHJ:                       04 Nov 2009 22:27:15 GMT
Assigned to ais523:                     06 Nov 2009 03:18:38 GMT
Judged TRUE by ais523:                  12 Nov 2009 21:22:44 GMT

========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

On Sun, Nov 1, 2009 at 17:07, Aaron Goldfein <aarongoldfein@gmail.com> wrote:
>> Registrar     Yally               2009-10-24  2009-10-24  1   Assumed
>
> CoE: Registrar is Postulated.
>
It may be assumed. Yally is inactive. Depending on how you interpret
R2276, it could be assumed, postulated, or possibly paradoxial if the
rule attempted to flip it to both values simultaneously.

========================================================================

Gratuitous Arguments by Yally:

I'm not inactive and have not been inactive
since most recently assuming the office of Registrar.

========================================================================

Judge ais523's Arguments:

First off, there is definitely not a paradox here. Rule 2276 flips
assumption to Assumed when a player becomes an officer via its
mechanism, and to Postulated when a player becomes an officer via
another mechanism; these are disjoint, so it doesn't flip both at once
like that. It also flips an office's assumption to Assumed at the
instant in which its holder becomes inactive; this could theoretically
cause timing ambiguity if becoming an officer caused a player to become
inactive at the same instant, but no rule currently does that. Note that
rule 2276 does /not/ cause Assumption to change just because an office's
holder is inactive; only when the office's holder /becomes/ inactive. (I
interpret "the holder of an office ceases to be an active player" as "an
officer ceases to be an active player", not "an event occurs before
which an office was held by an active player and after which that office
was not held by an active player", because the two readings do exactly
the same thing (due to the irrelevance of the assumption of a vacant
office) except that in the situation where an inactive player becomes an
officer via a mechanism in another rule, the first reading makes the
office unambiguously Postulated, whereas the second reading makes the
office Postulated via Cretans; for an ambiguous sentence like that,
where both meanings come to the same thing, it makes sense to pick the
meaning where the rule does not contradict itself. Even if I picked the
other interpretation, though, the verdict would be the same.)

There seems to be a dispute about whether Yally was active or not at the
time, but it really doesn't matter for this CFJ; all that matters to
determine the Assumption is the mechanism via which the officer was
installed (assuming that eir activity hasn't changed since the office
last changed hands). Yally stated "I make myself the holder of the
Registrar office."; the office was assumed by Walker at the time, and
therefore the only mechanism that could have been used was that in rule
2276. As a result, the office remained Assumed (or was flipped to
Assumed; either way, it doesn't matter). Later on, Yally won an election
for the office of IADoP, which according to rule 2276 flips the office
to Postulated (current officer would come to hold the office if e didn't
hold it already). Note that none of the rest of rule 2276 can possibly
trigger at this point, as the holder of the office didn't change, or
change activity, at all, so the ambiguity above is moot in this case,
and the argument above proving it moot is also moot. I judge CFJ 2729
TRUE, and wonder how on earth anyone could wonder otherwise. (@BobTHJ:
Yally had just posted a Registrar report marking emself as active, which
you didn't CoE; and even if e had been inactive, e'd just won an
election to make emself Registrar, whilst Registrar, which flips the
office to Postulated and no mechanism to flip it back the other way was
triggered. How on earth did you think that the office might have been
Assumed?)

========================================================================