===============================  CFJ 3398  ===============================

      Suppose a player A has breached two different rules B and C
      simultaneously, such that the breach of B was unavoidable (without
      breaching a rule creating a crime of higher Class), but not the
      breach of C, and the crimes created by the breach of the rules
      both have the same Class; both trials should return NOT GUILTY by
      cause of requirement e.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        Bayushi

Judge:                         ais523
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by Bayushi:                                20 Oct 2013 04:02:00
Assigned to ais523:                               20 Oct 2013 04:02:00
Judged FALSE by ais523:                           26 Oct 2013 22:58:00

==========================================================================

Judge ais523's Arguments:

This case hinges on what "could have reasonably avoided committing the
breach without committing a different breach of equal or greater
severity" means. Let's assume there are two equally severe requirements,
B' and C', that are contained in different rules B and C, and the player
has the following reasonable possibilities open to em:

* Breach requirement B', and also breach requirement C';
* Breach requirement B', but not requirement C'.

The question is, can the breach of C' be avoided without breaching B'?
There are two ways to parse this, the subjunctive, and the indicative:

"Avoiding the breach of C' would cause the player to breach B'". This is
false; the player would be breaching B' anyway, so there's no causation
involved.

"If the player does not breach C', then the player breaches B'". This is
true; B' is going to be breached no matter what.

I'll use a specific example to help clarify things. Imagine that a
player owns 1 of a particular hypothetical asset (we'll call them
Asses). Hypothetical rule B requires that player to transfer 2 Asses to
the Registrar in a particular Agoran week; hypothetical rule C places an
equally severe requirement on that player to transfer 1 Ass to the CotC,
a different player, in the same Agoran week. As the deadline approaches,
the player has no more Asses, and no clear way to get more. Can they be
punished for failing to make the transfer to the CotC?

If the player had had two Asses, rather than one, then e could avoid
breaching either rule, but it would leave em necessarily breaching the
other. Thus, by the letter of the rule, the player can choose to ignore
the breaches of both rules, on the basis that complying with either
would cause em to necessarily break the other. This seems somewhat
broken, but is consistent with both interpretations, so it doesn't
matter which one we take. (The risk that players might intentionally set
this sort of situation up – not exactly the same, but similar – is
actually why the rules for Yak awards are worded in such a bizarre way.)

In the situation that this CFJ asks about, where the player only has
one, the two interpretations lead to different results, so we should see
which interpretation leads to the more sensible results. The causality
interpretation is, at least, easy to work with; we can work out whether
avoiding the breach of C' would make the breach of B' unavoidable, and
the answer is "no, it already was". There aren't any weird timing issues
with this interpretation, and it matches common sense quite well. The
main disadvantage is that it uses an overly colloquial interpretation of
"without".

The other interpretation, though, has deeper problems. In Agora, a
breach of a rule happens at a particular instant; the point at which the
illegal action is performed, or at which a mandatory action reaches its
deadline. There are situations in which there are no weird timing issues
– e.g. when the same action is mandatory according to one rule, and
prohibited according to another – but there are also situations in which
it is very hard to determine what timespan the breaches in the "without"
refer to. In the example I'm using, suppose the player transferred to
the CotC. The point at which they fail to transfer to the Registrar is
going to be some later point in time. What happens if someone files a
criminal CFJ in between those two points in time? What if there's a
proposal pending to repeal the restriction, but it fails? This
interpretation might fit the letter of the rules more precisely, but
there doesn't seem to be a particular time period in time for which it
could refer to.

As such, the causality interpretation seems to make more sense than the
purely logical interpretation. I judge CFJ 3398 FALSE.

==========================================================================
