===============================  CFJ 3402  ===============================

      My family's dog Lilly is a person.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        omd
Barred:                        G.

Judge:                         ais523
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by omd:                                    12 Feb 2014 01:16:00
Assigned to ais523:                               12 Feb 2014 01:24:00
Judged FALSE by ais523:                           14 Feb 2014 08:06:00

==========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

H. Lilly is capable of freely originating and communicating
independent thoughts such as "please throw this toy for me", "please
open the door for me", and "I am so pleased to see you".


Caller's Evidence:

- http://theoatmeal.com/comics/dog_paradox

- R869:
      Any organism that is generally capable of freely originating and
      communicating independent thoughts and ideas is a person.  Rules
      to the contrary notwithstanding, no other entities are persons.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Judge ais523's Arguments:

The only counterarguments I can see to the caller's arguments are that
it's unclear what standard we're using for the ability to communicate
thoughts. In particular, what counts as a thought, and who does it have
to be able to be communicated to?

It's been discovered that some plants can communicate simple signals
(mostly related to distress) to other plants via releasing chemicals in
the soil. Humans could discover them via chemical analysis, and make a
good guess at the meaning via observing the circumstances that caused
them to be released. However, does this really make a plant an Agoran
person? I think it's fairly obvious that the answer is "no". The problem
is that there's no independent thoughts being originated here; the
communication only works because the recipient determines the meaning
from context (meaning that the recipient could determine the ideas in
question even without the communication).

So what about with dogs? I'd say that even though an average dog is much
more intelligent than the average plant, the way in which dogs
communicate with at least humans is reasonably primitive; the
communication doesn't acquire meaning throughout any sort of structured
language, but instead through observation of the context. There are
complex ideas that can be communicated this way (some games, which are
in a way not dissimilar to nomics, have this as part of their main
gameplay; one player chooses a rule, the other players try to guess it
from examples). However, I'm not sure that this qualifies as
"communicating independent thoughts"; the originator of the
communication can have the thought, but the recipients cannot receive
the communication until they have the same thoughts themselves.

So I'd say that Lilly's communication is not capable of communicating
anything that's outside the experience of the human or other entity e's
communicating with. There's something lacking in this sort of
communication that seems to fail to meet the standard of R869; you can
potentially have independent thoughts, but you can't communicate them
until someone else has the same thought.

(It might be interesting to repeat the CFJ with animals such as
songbirds or dolphins, whose languages are complex enough to convey
ideas via combining smaller ideas, rather than representing single,
individual statements whose meaning has to be calculated by reference.)

I judge this CFJ FALSE.

==========================================================================
