===============================  CFJ 3403  ===============================

      There is generally a conflict between the second paragraph of Rule
      2125 and the first paragraph of Rule 478.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        omd

Judge:                         Tiger
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by omd:                                    13 Feb 2014 02:42:00
Assigned to Tiger:                                23 Feb 2014 21:01:00
Judged FALSE by Tiger:                            24 Feb 2014 21:32:00

==========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

Rule 2125's capital SHALL NOT appears to be only interpretable as an
attempt to criminalize interpreting the rules in a particular way,
rather than to define the 'correct' interpretation.  However,
discussion and debate over the correct interpretation of rules has
always been a normal, and frequently necessary, part of participation
in the Agoran fora.  Although the clause arguably criminalizes
thinking a certain way rather than talking about it, it seems
impossible to regulate thinking without having a chilling effect on
participation.

Note that arguably, proscribing an action counts as limiting it, so a
correct interpretation would never be in violation of that clause,
since a proscribed action would be regulated by definition.  However,
depending on whether the "unregulated" in "proscribed unregulated
actions" means unregulated in reality or unregulated according to the
interpretation, the clause could still criminalize reasonable but
incorrect beliefs.  For example, if the statement of this CFJ is TRUE,
interpreting the rules so as to proscribe unregulated actions is not
effectively limited, because Rule 478 takes precedence, and is thus
not a regulated action.  If someone were then to believe the statement
to be FALSE, they would be interpreting the rules as proscribing the
aforementioned unregulated action (although since we assumed the
statement was true, e couldn't be penalized).


Caller's Evidence:

Rule 2125:

      An action is regulated if: (1) the Rules limit, allow, enable,
      or permit its performance; (2) describe the circumstances under
      which the action would succeed or fail; or (3) the action would,
      as part of its effect, modify information for which some player
      is required to be a recordkeepor.

      Regulated Actions CAN only be performed as described by the
      Rules.  The Rules SHALL NOT be interpreted so as to proscribe
      unregulated actions.

Rule 478:

      Freedom of speech being essential for the healthy functioning of
      any non-Imperial nomic, it is hereby resolved that no Player
      shall be prohibited from participating in the Fora, nor shall
      any person create physical or technological obstacles that
      unduly favor some players' fora access over others.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Judge Tiger's Arguments:

There are two lines of argument which I want to go over here. They are
largely unrelated to each other.

First: to me, there's always been a bit of a blurred line between
"freedom of speech", "prohibit from participating in the Fora", and
having certain statements be criminal.

Imagine, for example, a rule saying "Stating to the public Fora that
there are five lights is the class-1 crime of Untruthiness."
Obviously, this kind of rule clashes a bit with any purported freedom
of speech; especially so if there is anything in the game, for example
game-defined objects, which require players to speak about lights a
lot. Expecially especially so if there actually are five lights.

For a slightly more benign example, imagine the "let's have fun by
limiting our communication" rule saying "Using the word 'the' in a
message to the public Fora is the class-1 crime of Killing the
Knights." Such a rule is intended in good humour, and not to
criminalise anyone's thoughts. Does it infringe on freedom of speech?
I guess. Does it "prohibit someone from participating in the Fora"?
It's hard to say.

All actions in this game, at least under the current rules, are
performed by posting a message to their effect to the public fora.
There are actions, taken by posting certain statements, which are
illegal under the rules. Players are prohibited from saying them. Does
that infringe on the freedom of speech? Obviously not. Does it
"prohibit someone from participating in the Fora"? Obviously not; you
just have to participate without saying those things.

I will be coming back to this line of inquiry further below.

Second: what does it mean to "interpret the rules"? I see two possible
meanings. One is what happens when we discuss freely in the
agora-discussion; offering up "I'd say it can be read to mean this"; a
process which is not more binding than the consensus it hopes to form.
The other is what I'm doing right now: reading the rules with the
expressed purpose of finding out what they mean, and communicating
this through a well-defined, "legal", process. This latter reading is
in line with judges and courts "interpreting the law".

With the former reading, Rule 2125 would indeed attempt to criminalise
certain thoughts, since interpretation could be performed at home, all
alone. Any honest communication of one's (illegal) interpretation to
the Fora would serve as evidence against one, evidence that one has
interpreted the rules wrongly.

With the latter reading, the most the rule could achieve would be to
sentence a judge, or maybe an officer interpreting the rules regarding
eir duties and powers and acting thereupon, for interpreting
incorrectly. Interpretation of rules, when the term appears in the
rules, would be taken to mean any time that action actually affects
the game; to mean interpreting the rules when put in a situation when
that interpretation bears weight, more than sideline arguing and
musings on a-d.

Coming back to my examples of rules limiting communication, affecting
communication, and/or "prohibiting participation in the Fora": the
rule says "The Rules SHALL NOT be interpreted so as to proscribe
unregulated actions."

If "interpreting the Rules", according to the Rules, is something we
just do when talking willy-nilly, we can say whatever we want, but
there are some statements on matters of interpretation which are
criminal to utter. This is, to me, an obvious infringement on the
freedom of speech. It might be fuzzier if it were "interpreting the
law of Canada", but interpreting the rules is, as the Caller notes, a
very important part of Agoran gameplay. This is not illegal primes
we're talking about, it's 2+2.

However, if "interpreting the Rules" is read in a stricter sense, I'd
say it swings the other way. We find ourselves in the situation where
the rules, recognising that they might require interpretation, for
example by a judge, they do not stay completely silent on how. In
fact, this is such an important event that some ways of doing it is
labeled ILLEGAL, to ensure that it is done right. This does not affect
anyone's freedom of speech or ability to participate, because any
dissenting opinions could be voiced in the discussion forum. Just like
the Promotor is not allowed to distribute proposals in certain ways
even though e has the power, a judge (for example) SHALL NOT interpret
the rules in certain ways.

I argue that this latter reading is the more correct and sensible one.
One point in its favour is this: the sentence "The Rules SHALL NOT be
interpreted so as to unregulated actions" is itself an example of an
action which, by the same rule, "the Rules limit, allow, or permit its
performance". By this reading, interpreting the rules is a regulated
action, and "CAN only be performed as described by the rules". This
includes, most notably, Rule 217 titled "Interpreting the Rules",
which describes many ways in which interpretation is to be performed.

In summary: when Rule 2125 talks about "interpreting the rules", it is
not the same "interpret" as in "well, I think this rules means X" when
spoken in a casual discussion. Rather, interpreting the rules, being
limited by that very clause, is a regulated action. It does not
prohibit anyone's ability to participate in the Fora, and there is no
conflict between the named paragraphs of Rules 2125 and 478.

I judge CFJ 3403 FALSE.

P.S. A worrying thought is that the other rules which mention
interpreting the rules platonically state that certain interpretations
are correct and others not, while no rule provides anyone with
explicit permission or mechanism to actually perform any
interpretation. I would have hoped that the CFJ rules would say "The
judge's task is to assess and analyse known facts and interpret any
relevant rules to find an answer" or something.

Regardless, I suggest removing the language making interpretations
illegal and regulated, leaving interpretation to be a platonic
activity which just happens somewhere between the rules-as-text and
the rules-as-what-platonically-happens-in-the-game. There are other
rules saying "if a rule would do x, it is void" without phrasing it
like "if a rule is interpreted to do x, that interpretation is wrong
and void". Rules mean stuff, and we interpret them to find out what
that meaning is. The rules should only concern themselves with what
they mean, not how we go about the act of interpret them.

==========================================================================
