===============================  CFJ 3432  ===============================

      The original version of Rule 2437 (The Dungeon Master) generally
      allows/allowed the Dungeon Master to set properties of the rule
      itself.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        omd

Judge:                         Nichdel
Judgement:                     [name]

==========================================================================

History:

Called by omd:                                    23 Oct 2014 23:53:00
Assigned to Nichdel:                              10 Nov 2014 02:37:00
Judged TRUE by Nichdel:                           12 Nov 2014 01:11:00

==========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

I note that I consider Rule 2437 an entity pertaining to the
PoA.  (It is certainly a rule pertaining to the PoA, and a rule is a
type of entity.)  And rule text is a property.  Accordingly, I hereby
provide public notice that I intend to cause Rule 2437 to amend itself
(set its text) to read: [omitted]

Caller's Evidence:
(rule text in question)
    The Dungeon Master is an office. His weekly report includes a
    summary of the changes which have occured to the PoA since the
    previous report. The Dungeon Master's monthly report includes a
    summary of the entire PoA.

    These summaries MAY be anything whatsoever (subject to other rules),
    but they SHOULD follow common sense, precedent, and Agoran
    consensus. Provided they don't describe any entities not belonging
    to the PoA, such summaries inside a Dungeon Master's report are
    self-ratifying.

    The Dungeon Master CAN by Announcement cause this rule to add or
    remove entities to/from the PoA or set properties of entities
    pertaining to the PoA, unless rules to the contrary exist.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Judge Nichdel's Arguments:

I judge CFJ 3432 to be TRUE. On its surface, the CFJ asks if rule
2437's original text specified mechanisms for changing the text of
rule 2437 (that work). It does indeed; rules are entities and thus the
Dungeon Master could add Rule 2437 (or any other rule) to the PoA and
then set its properties by announcement -- something that is part of
the PoA certainly "pertains to" the PoA by any reasonable definition
[1][2][3].

The question that everyone wants answered, however, is whether this
was possible in the way omd attempted to do it. I don't believe the
rule "belongs" to the PoA without being added to the PoA, so this
depends on whether we take "belongs to" or "relates to". I'm inclined
to accept the second interpretation based on my own intuition, the
fact that the two people I asked to define "pertaining to" both said
"related to", and the fact that it took one month for anyone to
question this part of the scam.

 That said, I would be remiss if I did not directly address Eritivus'
take on this [4]. In it, Eritivus claims:

"However, "pertain" also has a distinct sense, used mainly in legal
contexts, meaning "belong to as a part". There was a time when this
would be enough to render R2437 unscammable, because R754 would give
precedence to the legal meaning."

My own research has not indicated this as the only or primary legal
definition [2], but rather that there are many legal meanings and this
is a meaning only found in law [3]. In fact, Burton's Legal Thesaurus
lists "relate" as a legal synonym of "pertain". Eritivus continues:

""Pertaining to" is obviously used as a synonym for "contained in",
"inside" and "belonging to", and as the effect of "add to" (i.e.
adding an entity to the PoA is to cause it to pertain to the PoA)."

No definition that I have seen would treat "pertaining to" as a
synonym with "inside" or "contained in", nor would any legal
definition of "inside" be synonymous with "belonging to" [2]. However
"contained in", "belonging to", and (possibly) "inside" could be
synonyms if the PoA was interpreted as a set of elements, making it a
logical concept. As I could not find a definition of "pertaining to"
restricted to logic, this brings us again to the common meaning,
"related to".

[1]

Wiktionary - https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Wiktionary:Main_Page

    pertain:
        1. to belong
        2. to relate, to refer, be relevant to

    belong:
        2. to be part of, or the property of
        5. to be an element of a set

    relate:
        4. to have a connection

    refer:
        4. to allude to, make a reference or allusion to

[2]

Burton's Legal Thesaurus (4E) - http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/

    pertain:
        appertain, be appropriate, be associated with, be concerned
with, be connected to, be suitable, bear upon, befit, behoove, belong,
concern, have implications for, have interrelationship with, have
reference to, have reeation to, have relevance, have significance for,
refer, relate, stand in relation to, tie in with, touch upon

    pertaining to:
        See: comparative, germane, incident, relevant

    inside:
        See: herein, interior, internal

[3]

Oxford Dictionary - http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/us

    pertain
        1. Be appropriate, related, or applicable to
            1.1 (chiefly Law) Belong to something as a part,
appendage, or accessory

        2. Be in effect or existence in a specified place or at a specified time

[4] http://www.mail-archive.com/agora-business%40agoranomic.org/msg26787.html

==========================================================================
