===============================  CFJ 3647  ===============================

      Before the sending of this message, ATMunn voted FOR proposal
      8053.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        ATMunn

Judge:                         Publius Scribonius Scholasticus
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by ATMunn:                                 24 Jun 2018 18:09:37
Assigned to Publius Scribonius Scholasticus:      24 Jun 2018 21:48:55
Judged FALSE by Publius Scribonius Scholasticus:  26 Jun 2018 21:57:36

==========================================================================

Judge's Arguments:

Oyez! Oyez! Oyez! The court delivers below a verdict on CFJ 3647, called
by The Honourable ATMunn.

The case before the court today raises only a question of law. The case
asks specifically whether The Honourable ATMunn's vote evaluates to FOR,
but generally whether shorthands are effective in taking actions. In CFJ
3523, The Victorious and Honourable Aris addressed a related question.
In CFJ 3523, the court was faced with a question of whether a statement,
such as "i sent this to the wrong place" would have the effect of taking
those actions that appeared in a quoted message. The Victorious and
Honourable Aris, in recognition of existing and well-established
shorthands, found that it was effective because it was unambigous and
could not be reasonably misunderstood in the context. The court believes
that this same standard would logically extend to explicit shorthands,
such as that before the court today. Additionally, game custom supports
this. Shorthands, such as "I do the same" or "I do the opposite" have
often been accepted without question.

Now, the court must consider whether The Honourable ATMunn's vote
fulfilled the standard found above. The court finds that it does not
because the vote remains ambiguous as to whether the caster is voting as
the previous voters have done at the time of casting or the caster is
casting a conditional vote that will evaluate to whatever the vote of
the previous voters is at the time of resolution, therefore the court
judges the statement "Before the sending of this message, ATMunn voted
FOR proposal 8053." FALSE.

References and Evidence:
Discussion of CFJ 3646 between The Honourable twg and The Victorious and
    Right Learned ais523
CFJ 3523

==========================================================================
