===============================  CFJ 3691  ===============================

      The last person to vote FOR a proposal' is the last person to
      submit a ballot regarding that proposal which evaluates to FOR.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        Jacob Arduino

Judge:                         D. Margaux
Judgement:                     DISMISS

==========================================================================

History:

Called by Jacob Arduino:                          02 Dec 2018 22:33:00
Assigned to G.:                                   03 Dec 2018 01:02:00
Judged DISMISS by G.:                             03 Dec 2018 15:07:00
Motion to reconsider self-filed:                  03 Dec 2018 18:33:00
G. recused:                                       25 Dec 2018 21:56:00
Assigned to D. Margaux:                           25 Dec 2018 21:56:00
Judged DISMISS by D. Margaux:                     25 Dec 2018 21:56:00

==========================================================================

Judge D. Margaux's Arguments:

I assign it a judgment DISMISS for the same reasons G. gave in his
original judgement.

Judge G.'s "original judgement":

The rules do not describe voting on [or FOR] proposals at all.  The
rules describe voting on "decisions to adopt proposals".  To see that
this is a consequential variation (in terms of technicalities), note
that a proposal can be part of more than one decision to adopt it (e.g.,
if it fails quorum).

As part of our long-standing shorthand, people casting votes by
announcement do so, generally, by stating that they are voting on the
proposals, not on the decisions to adopt proposals.  This is very useful
shorthand and valid, as there is no ambiguity that their votes refer to
Decisions.  However, if someone wrote actual formal rules text that
described what happened when someone "voted FOR proposals",  it would
quickly be pointed out that "voting FOR proposals" is not a regulated,
described action.

So the answer to this question is:  it depends.  If "the last person to
vote FOR a proposal" was used colloquially (say within another player's
conditional vote), this CFJ would be TRUE.  If that text was used within
a Rule, it would be FALSE, as the rules don't map "voting FOR a
proposal" to "submitting a valid ballot of FOR on the decision to adopt
the proposal", so that would be referring to some other (perhaps
non-existent, unregulated, or impossible-to-perform) process.

If the text is contained within a proposal (midway between the formality
of rules and colloquial shorthand for actions), I think it would err on
the side of rules text (i.e. it would refer to a non-existent process),
due to the technical and precise level on which proposals function.

Since the answer to the CFJ is therefore "it depends on context", I
judge DISMISS (insufficient information).

==========================================================================
