===============================  CFJ 3962  ===============================

      The game of Agora exists AND the game of Agora has rules AND I am
      a player in the game of Agora AND I have some natural number
      amount of coins.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        Madrid

Judge:                         ais523
Judgement:                     TRUE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by Madrid:                                 11 May 2022 20:30:00
Assigned to ais523:                               14 May 2022 21:21:00
Judged TRUE by ais523:                            16 May 2022 18:05:00

==========================================================================

Judge ais523's Arguments:

First, a warning: this sort of CFJ is normally made when there's some
reason to doubt the statements involved, and it's typically the
caller's responsibility to explain what that reason is, rather than
force the judge to work through all the possible reasons it might
happen. As such, I think this is very close to INSUFFICIENT.

The actual statement is easy enough to work out, though, that it
probably isn't an undue burden:

"The game of Agora exists" – yes it does, per R101. (Even if Agora
ceases to practically exist, without an amendment or repeal of R101,
Agora will still consider itself to exist, possibly as a legal
fiction.)

"The game of Agora has rules" – neither R101 nor R1698 seems to
technically require this; a potential gamestate where we all play using
game custom rather than rules seems to be just about consistent.
However, there are at least some rules which uncontroversially exist,
e.g. R104 which has never been amended or repealed and thus still
exists in its original form (and long may it stay that way!).

"I am a player in the game of Agora" (where "I" = "Madrid") – this
statement self-ratified on Sunday 15 May 2022 and nothing has happened
since then to deregister Madrid, so the only way Madrid could fail to
be a player would be if the self-ratification failed, possibly due to
introducing a contradiction between the rules and gamestate. The main
situation in which this could happen would be if Madrid had never
consented to the rules, but e's been acting as though e has for several
years now and thus it seems reasonable to assume consent by this point.

"I have some natural number amount of coins" (where "I" = "Madrid") –
this statement last self-ratified on Sunday 1 May 2022, but I don't see
anything that happened since then that would cause it to become false,
and the current Treasuror also hasn't listed any changes that would
cause it to become false. Madrid did spend some coins recently, but not
enough to reduce eir balance to 0. (Assuming "natural number" excludes
0, this one is quite a bit of effort, close to inappropriate for a CFJ
unless the caller can point out the likely nature of a mistake in the
coin totals. If "natural number" includes 0, it's trivial.)

As a consequence, I judge CFJ 3962 TRUE.

==========================================================================
