===============================  CFJ 3965  ===============================

      The entity at one point known as Rule 2658 is a Rule.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        Jason

Judge:                         G.
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by Jason:                                  12 Jun 2022 16:35:00
Assigned to G.:                                   12 Jun 2022 16:37:00
Judged FALSE by G.:                               19 Jun 2022 19:25:00

==========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

When Rule 2658 was triggered, the second bullet point amended each rule
containing the text "~>" and "<~", including Rule 2658. This means that
the second bullet point was changed during the procedure. It is possible
that means the third point never triggered.

The possibility was also raised on Discord that "~>" and "<~" being in
quotes could invalidate the amendments based on ambiguity about whether
that counts as containing the text. I don't really buy that argument,
but I've included the cases here for completeness.


Caller's Evidence:

Rule 2658/0 (Power=3)
The Winds Die Down

      When the wind dies down, the following happen in order:

      * The following rules are repealed in order: R2620 "Cards & Sets",
        R2623 "Popular Proposal Proposer Privilege", R2629 "Victory
        Auctions", R2624 "Card Administration", R2622 "Pending
        Proposals", R2651 "Proposal Recycling", and R2653 "Buying
        Strength".

      * All rules including the text "~>" and "<~" are amended in
        ascending numerical order by removing all text between and
        including each "~>" and the first following "<~".

      * This rule is repealed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Judge G.'s Arguments:

To generalize the situation, the important aspects of the rules text
of Rule 2658 is as follows:

    When the Winds Change, the following events happen in order:
    1.  Some specified rules are repealed in a given order.
    2a. Some specified Rules are amended in a given order.
    2b. The specification of what happens in 2a is changed by changing
        the rule text of 2a.
    3.  This rule is repealed.

CFJs 3966-3967 found that all the items 1-2b were completed (or attempted
by the rule but blocked by other rules without stopping the process).
The question is whether the procedure then continues to perform (3)?  Or
did 2b, by changing 2a, stop (3) from happening  - after all, the
procedure that was started didn't exist in the rules anymore, instead
replaced by an entirely new procedure that hasn't been triggered yet
(because the winds haven't changed while that new text was in effect).

On one hand, the text of the rules is evaluated continuously, and this
rule describes a new process that hasn't been triggered yet.  Think about
the situation where during 2b the text "When the Winds Change" is amended
to "When the Gauntlet is noticed", if you let the process continue to (3)
you'd be taking a step for which the conditions haven't been met in the
current rules - at the very least it's troubling to let an amended
procedure continue under the old process, basically giving repealed
rules-text a continued voice that effectively overrules the current
rules-text.

ON the other hand, Rule 1586/9 (Definition and Continuity of Entities)
describes how consider continuity of game state (e.g. asset holdings,
switch values, etc.) when the rules that define those things change.  It
does so by talking about "defined entities" and heavily implies/mandates
that continuity exists across rule changes - amending a minor aspect of
Coins does not destroy all "old" Coins because they are governed by
slightly different rules.  This raises a question for the current case:
are particular instances of rule-defined processess (sequences of actions)
 entities?  And what does this mean for a process that is amended midway
through its execution?

First, I will state (unaware of any precedent) that individual actions
are not entities.  You can't "Transfer 10 coins to yesterday's transfer of
15 coins from ais523 to Jason" or in true nomic fashion "transfer 10 coins
to this transfer of 10 coins".  Just from common sense, that this is
linguistic and practical nonsense.

Second, I'll say that sequences of actions and obligations separated by
time can be considered entities for the purpose of continuity.  For
example, "The April Victory Auction" or "the ongoing PM election" are
entities.  Again lacking precedent, I find this based on our Agoran
customs:  if we hotfix the end conditions for an election (how a winner is
determined) while a voting period is in progress, we generally assume the
election as a whole is still ongoing, or find it necessary to say
something like "all elections in progress are terminated without a winner"
in the proposal, implying that the process continues through the rule
change unless explicitly terminated.

But of course, here we have something that is midway in between - it is
not a time-process where different events over time shape and morph an
existing entity (like the "voting period of a decision" might be morphed
will remaining continuous) and yet it is also not a single action that
succeed or fails atomically (which would not be an entity).

In this situation, the best balance of respecting the continuity of
processes-as-entities while also respecting the current (that is, amended)
rule procedure of the process is to ask:  did all the steps under the
new process take place so we "know" we're at step (3) under the current
rule?  To use the election example: if an election rule is amended to do
something after the "election runoff period" but the "election runoff
period" didn't exist in the old rule so never came into existence, you
haven't got a continuous set of conditions for a continuous process, so
the new process never started and the old process has been amended out of
existence.

Looking backwards from (3) in this case, the new rules text (as found by
CFJ 3967) has step 2a as this:
       * All rules including the text "" are amended in
         ascending numerical order by removing all text between and
         including each "".

By the principle that all sets include the empty set, all rules include
the text "".  However, the concept of what text is 'between' each "" is
not well-defined enough for R105 to allow any rule change to take place.
By CFJ 3966, R105 blocking each rule change does not stop the process, but
no change in the ruleset would take place due to following the new procedure.

This means, at step (3), the rules are identical to what they would be
whether or not the "" replacing clauses took place, so the gamestate
(other than the single process amendment in question) is effectively
identical under the old and new processes.  Therefore, this process
continues under the new rule text.  Step (3) can occur in a manner that
respects both the old and new processes, repealing the rule that is the
subject of this CFJ.

I find this CFJ to be FALSE.

==========================================================================
