===============================  CFJ 3970  ===============================

      A proposal with title "Dream of Wandering" was distributed within
      the last 7 days.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        secretsnail

Judge:                         Jason
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by secretsnail:                            22 Jun 2022 18:13:00
Assigned to Jason:                                22 Jun 2022 22:47:00
Judged FALSE by Jason:                            29 Jun 2022 04:13:00

==========================================================================

Caller's Arguments:

Arguments: (TRUE:) "cat" referred to Jason according to most players, and
the meaning can be easily certified by asking 4st and looking at the
discord forum. (FALSE:) Letting this slide could open the door to
retroactive changing of who the coauthor's name referred to. If 4st said
"oh i actually meant the player skullcat, not Jason" that would be a way
to manipulate the list of "persons". The question is if an ambiguous
person can still be on the list.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Judge Jason's Arguments:

Some factual background: Jason is an Agoran player that uses the
nickname "Random Internet Cat" on Discord. 4st, a new player, asked
questions about drafting a proposal on the Discord and received help
from Jason, then attempted to include Jason as a coauthor on the
proposal by solely the name "cat". The proposal has not self-ratified
into existence, and its distribution has not self-ratified.

Rule 2350 requires that coauthors be "specified" and that they be
persons other than the author. Rule 2350 also provides that submitting a
proposal is a by announcement action.

According to sophisticated searching methods (quick filtering on "random
internet cat" in Thunderbird), the only mentions of that nickname to the
lists are to DIS (mostly in discord digests), a few maybe public
messages from Jason's protonmail account with that username, and a few
links. Everything not to DIS was around two years or more ago, and
cannot reasonably assist a claim of specification.

That means that the only possible sources that could be used as a basis
for specification are Discord digests and the Discord itself (a
discussion forum). General precedent holds that specification can depend
on information reasonably available to the average Agoran and must be
evaluatable with reasonable effort. It is contrary to game custom and
the best interests of the game to mandate that players have access to
discussion fora in order to participate, as indicated by the lack of
normative encouragement to ensure access to discussion fora in Rule 478,
where players are explicitly encouraged to ensure they have access to
public fora.

The caller raises the point that a player named "skullcat" is registered
and that this potentially creates ambiguity. I believe that this
ambiguity exists and that the purported specification was insufficient
to resolve it. The fact that "cat" has a meaning different from skullcat
to a considerable subset of Agorans (even if that meaning is not held to
be available to the average Agoran) means it cannot clearly and
unambiguously designate skullcat.

The caller further argues that the meaning could be easily determined
"by asking 4st". Arguing that this would be necessary implies that the
specification did not meet the "clearly and unambiguously" standard for
action specification necessary for by announcement actions.

G. raises the argument that an unknown name being listed in the
coauthors might be accepted after asking a question. While I do not need
to answer that here, I do not believe that it would be contrary to the
text of the rules or to the best interests of the game to require
minimal indication of who an unknown name refers to during submission. A
simple "Jane (my non-player friend)" would likely be sufficient if
"Jane" was held not to be.

In conclusion, I hold:

1. That information published to a discussion forum is not, solely by
virtue of being published to that forum, to be considered reasonably
available to the average Agoran.

2. That precedent requires that "specifying" something requires that
information be reasonably available to the average Agoran.

3. That insufficient support to the public fora (or otherwise) exists
for the name "Random Internet Cat" (or simply "cat") to designate any
specific player for the purposes of specification.

4. That, even if "Random Internet Cat" was a sufficiently specific
designation, the usage of "cat" was insufficiently unambiguous to meet
the standard for a by announcement action.

5. That, given holdings 3 and 4, no proposal entitled "Dream of
Wandering" was submitted by 4st.

6. That, given holding 5 and the lack of any intervening
self-ratification, no proposal entitled "Dream of Wandering" was validly
distributed in the previous 7 days.


CFJ 3970 (A proposal with title "Dream of Wandering" was distributed
within the last 7 days.) judged FALSE.


Judge Jason's Evidence:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rule 2350/16 (Power=3)
Proposals

      A proposal is a type of entity consisting of a body of text and
      other attributes. A player CAN create a proposal by announcement,
      specifying its text and optionally specifying any of the following
      attributes:

      * An associated title.

      * A list of coauthors (which must be persons other than the
        author).

      * An adoption index.

      Creating a proposal adds it to the Proposal Pool. Once a proposal
      is created, its text, author, and AI cannot be changed. The author
      (syn. proposer) of a proposal is the person who submitted it.

      The author of a proposal in the Proposal Pool CAN remove (syn.
      retract, withdraw) it from the Pool by announcement.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rule 478/40 (Power=3)
Fora

      Freedom of speech being essential for the healthy functioning of
      any non-Imperial nomic, it is hereby resolved that no Player shall
      be prohibited from participating in the Fora, nor shall any person
      create physical or technological obstacles that unduly favor some
      players' fora access over others.

      Publicity is a secured forum switch with values Public,
      Discussion, and Foreign (default), tracked by the Registrar.

      The Registrar may change the publicity of a forum without
      objection as long as:

      1. e sends eir announcement of intent to that forum; and

      2. if the forum is to be made public, the announcement by which
         the Registrar makes that forum public is sent to all existing
         public fora.

      Each player should ensure e can receive messages via each public
      forum.

      A public message is a message sent via a public forum, or sent to
      all players and containing a clear designation of intent to be
      public. A rule can also designate that a part of one public
      message is considered a public message in its own right. To
      "publish" or "announce" something is to send a public message
      whose body contains that thing. To do something "publicly" is
      to do that thing within a public message.

      Where the rules define an action that a person CAN perform "by
      announcement", that person performs that action by, in a single
      public message, specifying the action and setting forth intent to
      perform that action by sending that message, doing both clearly
      and unambiguously.

      Any action performed by sending a message is performed at the time
      date-stamped on that message. Actions in messages (including
      sub-messages) are performed in the order they appear in the
      message, unless otherwise specified. Allowing actions performed by
      sending a message to take place simultaneously must be done
      explicitly and is secured at power 2.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

==========================================================================
