===============================  CFJ 3978  ===============================

      Proposals 8724 through 8804 were submitted.

==========================================================================

Caller:                        4st

Judge:                         ais523
Judgement:                     FALSE

==========================================================================

History:

Called by 4st:                                    11 Jul 2022 03:01:00
Assigned to ais523:                               11 Jul 2022 22:19:00
Judged FALSE by ais523:                           15 Jul 2022 19:51:00

==========================================================================

Judge ais523's Arguments:

The text used by the author was "81 times, I submit the following
proposal:". The meaning of "the following proposal" seems fairly clear
that it refers to only a single proposal, so this was an attempt to
submit one proposal multiple times.

What rules-defined effect does that have? Rule 2350 talks about both
"creating" and "submitting" proposals, with almost everything caring
about the creation rather than the submission. It also explicitly gives
a mechanism for doing the creation, but there's no mechanism available
for doing the submission. I can see two plausible readings:

a) For proposals, "create" and "submit" are synonyms.

b) "Creating" and "submitting" a proposal are two different actions,
the latter action being impossible because there's no mechanism to
perform it.

The only difference between these two readings is how the proposal's
author is defined; in reading a), a proposal's author is its creator;
in reading b), proposals have no author (but the proposal system
otherwise works correctly). I can't see anything in the rules that
implies that proposals have to have an author (rule 107 requires the
Promotor to specify a proposal's author when distributing it, but it
seems like that requirement could be satisfied by saying "this proposal
has no author" – it's clearly possible to have a proposal with no
coauthors, and those can be distributed), and past CFJs (e.g. CFJ 1780)
have found that there are situations in which proposals with no author
can exist.

Reading a) clearly wins a rule 217 tie-break, but I'm not sure it's
actually consistent with the wording of the rules; it may be that we
have to go with the absurd reading b) because anything else would
violate the literal text of the rules. I think that reading a) is
legitimate because "submit" is effectively defined as "become an author
of" (because "author" is defined as "person who submitted"), and a
proposal's author cannot be changed after creation, so the only way to
submit a proposal (i.e. become the author of one) is to create it. This
is a little tortured, though, and so I wouldn't be surprised if another
judge found differently.

Regardless of how this wording snarl-up is fixed, though, the action
taken when trying to create/submit the proposals is impossible – the
verdict of this CFJ doesn't actually depend on whether creating and
submitting proposals are synonyms or not. If submitting a proposal is a
synonym for creating it, trying to create the same proposal 81 times is
something that goes against the plain meaning of "create" – creating
something causes it to exist, so you can't create something that
already exists. If submitting a proposal isn't a synonym for creating
it, then proposals can't be "submitted" because there's no mechanism to
do so (and the message didn't succed in creating the same proposal 81
times, either), but this doesn't break the game because in taht
reading, "submitting" proposals isn't a required step in adopting them.

I judge CFJ 3978 FALSE.

==========================================================================
